opposed to drinking. I had heard that he was a
strong prohibitionist. Does that partly link
back to his Baptist roots, you think? Well,
probably maybe. I don't know about that. Was that a
lifetime attitude for him? Yes.
We never, ever had anything in our home. And he was
so against the young people. And at A&M, it was, you
got in real bad trouble if you were caught. All
right, let's go back to, what were the important
buildings at A&M when you all arrived? Well, you
know, I have the vague idea recollection of that
administration building it was a big
old-fashioned now this is the new one or the one
that this is not the one that burned this is the new
one well it wouldn't be the new one maybe it was the
one that burned i don't know about when one burned
all right i'm thinking that you know they see the
whole campus is different from what it was because
there's a railroad station still that They tore it
down about 10 years ago. They tore it down. You see,
everything that came to the campus came on the, I
keep wanting to say Southern Pacific. I'm not sure
which branch it was. Southern Pacific and
Burlington Rock Island both ran on that. They came
on that track. And that's the way you got. You got
off the train, and there were iron gates, as I
remember, across that. And you know, this is all on
the west side of what's there now. And you just came
in those gates. And then there were this oval
street. One went up this way and one this way. And
the administration building, as I recall, was
right here at the top of the oval. And then there
were houses that came down this way, and the other
side didn't have houses. But our house and the Kyle
house and the Fountain house, there were
different houses down the side there. And that
was... Were there any trees of any size on the
campus then? Yeah, seems like there were. But that
train created quite a problem, because the
students would go to Bryan. They said they had
freight trains that came in there, too. And
so the boys had a habit of hanging on the train or
jumping holding on, then when they got the five
miles out to college, they'd jump off. And one
terrible
time, I don't know whether this is of any interest,
but this one student jumped off of the train, and it
was terribly, really against the rules. They were
not supposed to do that. And he jumped off. And it
caught his arm some way and pulled it off. And he
picked that arm up and walked up to the infirmary.
Now, where the infirmary was back in those days
was kind of angled off from the house where we
lived. And my father did. But you wouldn't have any
recollection of that because the whole school's
different from now. But there was a convenience
for my father to go. But he went over there every
afternoon to check on the students that were sick.
And they called him that night about this. And he
got up and went over there. And I don't know the
outcome of that. I'm sure they could then get it
back on. I don't know. But things like that, that's
the reason they didn't want them jumping on that
train like that.
During your years there, do you remember any other
calamities? Were there any big fires or
tornadoes? Well, I guess about the main thing,
thing that i can remember is the flu epidemic that
was really about really a bad one please describe
that for us well i don't i can't really describe it
except every day there'd be more students going
getting into the the um and i guess they called it
infirmary and
And I don't remember. I think maybe there might
have been a few deaths, but I'm not sure about that.
Was the infirmary able to serve all of them, or did
they have to send some of them back to the
dormitories? Well, I don't remember about that,
but I know they were really crowded and worried my
father terribly.
Let's see. You took A&M classes. Please describe
some of the teachers that you remember, some of the
good faculty members.
Did you have English from Tommy Mayo, for example?
No, I don't believe so. I can't remember many of the
teachers.
Well, those classes, were they easy? Were they
rigorous? Well, they were hard for me because I
always felt like the courses at A&M would be harder
than any place else anyway. I don't know why. But I
took what I thought were such hard courses. And I
got along. I got along okay with them. But
chemistry was... Not ever one of my favorite
subjects. That was kind of hard for me. That was
one, was that one of your harder courses? Well, it
was for me. I always did like math. Not that it would
ever do me any good, but it was like a game, you know,
algebra and...
Did, as far back as I know, There were many, many
nicknames for faculty members and others. Were
there nicknames then? Oh, there were nicknames
for the students. I was going through this old
book, and several of my friends were in there. And I
noticed this one very handsome, married Lily Best
Kyle, named Harry Baker. And his name was Trash.
Everybody on the campus called him Trash. And the
one I was dating with was his best friend. And his
name was just plain old T. Lewis. They never did
have a nickname for him. But we used to say. T. Lewis
and Trash would come by and get Lilybeth and me, and
we'd go dating. And, of course, the head yell
leader was Catfish Goodman. Everybody knew
Catfish Goodman.
Were they called yell leaders then? Why,
certainly. You don't think they'd be called
cheerleaders, do you? Well, I was wondering.
Well, I should say not. That's like Texas
University. That's right, that's right. No, we
used to make more fun of, you know, cheerleaders,
and that was just a bad word. And then the way the...
the way the band leader went with all the prancing.
They all do that. Bands do that. Was the band very
much respected then? Oh, you bet. And it sure is
now. My son lives in Enid for several years. His
good friend was in the press box at the Mall Games.
And
he wanted Lee to help him with spotting the team, so
Lee was in the press box with him. And they've
always kidding me about Texas A&M, because I made
such a silly thing out of it for myself. the A&M oh I
tell you what about this I'll switch up back to
something when I was in Texas University the
that was the year that my father was invited to come
to OU and so he called me one day and he said I've been
invited to come to be president of Oklahoma
University. And he said, I'm talking to the family
about it. He said, now, what would you think about
it if I should take that position? And of course, I
said just what anybody would have said. If that's
what you want to do, then that's what you must do. I
think that was a compliment to you. And I should say
it. that just think it over good. And then I said,
there's just one thing. If you take that job at the
OU, don't you ever allow OU and A&M to play
football.
That was our conversation about that. And sure
enough, now they play all the time. And that is just
terrible for me. You're torn. Yeah. Well, I'm not
too torn. But when I went to Texas, that was kind of a
tough thing for me, too. I tried to make all the
dances at OU. But the train went to Bryan. I mean, to
Hearn. Remember, is Hearn still there? Yes,
ma'am. They'd meet me up there at Hearn, and I'd get
off the train and spend the weekend and go to the
core dance on Saturday night and go back to... And
in spite of all that, I had some friends down at
Texas A&M. I joined a sorority. I was a pi-fi down
there. And...
So there was a lot that was very nice about it, but it
never, ever came anywhere close to taking any
feeling that I didn't have for A&M. That was just,
that was just, the spirit they talk about all the
time really got into me. Don't
you want some more pillows behind you? Well, thank
you, Carolyn. I think you need propping up. Yeah.
Well, I'm doing a lot of talking, but it's not
anything that's going to help Dr. Martin. Is that
better? Yeah, that's fine. Thank you. Make
believe that I had never heard about this spirit.
What was this Aggie spirit? I don't know, but it got
into people mighty good. How? What caused people
to be proud of it? Oh, I guess it was just everything
was so close together and all just, all cadets and
And not too much diversion. I don't know. I don't
know what you call it. Were there some events that
brought people together? That I recall. Did y'all
have yell practices then? Yeah, sure. Where were
they held? Well, sometimes they would come
around. The whole student body would come and
gather around the front porch at our house. And the
father would come out there and he'd give them pep
talk and they'd all cheer and yell and that kind of
spirit. Did they ever attempt to play any tricks on
your father, any pranks anywhere around the
house? The students? Yes, ma'am.
Well, I think that, I don't recall right now. You
don't remember any trash on the front porch? No,
nothing like that. They always seemed like they
were very respectful.
When you attended class, what did a young lady wear
to class in those days? Oh, something just...
tailored plain kind of clothes. You remind me,
your answer reminds me of what Mrs. Walton told me
she wore, so then to try to provoke your thoughts,
you had faded blue jeans, sneakers. I can
guarantee that I didn't wear anything like that.
Would it have been a dress or a two-piece outfit?
Oh, it would be a dress. What length? What skirt
length? What was the hemline? Well, it was just a
modest hemline. I don't know exactly because the
hems change so much. And what kind of makeup would a
coed have worn? Just about like what they're
wearing now, if they don't put too much. And how
long would a young lady's hair have been?
You know, I was looking at some of the pictures of
what they call senior favorites. What are you all
showing around? Well, he just mentioned hemlines
and hairdos. So it was okay for a young lady to cut
her hair then? Oh, well, it was quite a big deal in my
family about my hair because the girls were
cutting the hair, and mine never did go real long,
but it came down to about shoulder blade length,
and I wanted to cut it, and my parents wouldn't let
me. for a long time. And so on some birthday that I
was having, my father was out of town. And I got a
telegram from him. He said, you have my permission
to cut your hair. So my mother made the
appointment. And Carolyn, I think maybe it's a
little cool in here.
She made an appointment at this beauty shop down
there and took me to Houston and had my hair cut and I
still have the hair upstairs. They
took my hair and just made it into a kind of a roll
sort of thing, about this long. And that was the
time when they made hairnets out of real hair. And
they wanted to give my mother $25 for my hair, and
she wouldn't take it. So it's still upstairs.
But anyway, that's how, when I got my hair cut. I
think I was 16, 17.
This photo here. Oh, look. Is that in front of the
president's house? Yeah. I remember that day we
had that taken. I don't remember the day, but I
remember. What was the occasion? Was that a
birthday? No, I don't think so. Whose straw hat is
that right there by the rocking chair? I don't have
any idea. Is that yours?
Well, I'm having a little trouble seeing it. Where
is the hat? Right back there. Oh, down here. I don't
know. Would a young lady have worn a straw hat
often? Was it popular? Well, we wore hats. Yeah, we
did.
And is that your pet dog? That's Bill. I was dating a
boy named Bill at that time, and when I got that
little puppy, I just named him Bill. And I brought,
it seems to me like I brought Bill to Norman with me.
And he lived there in the house and around the
house? Oh, yeah. I always had a dog, and nearly
always a Spitz dog. I don't know how that happened.
Did the dogs play around on the campus? I think so.
That's
the porch to the house. I think the steps are right
close around here somewhere.
While your dad was president of A&M, what were his
greatest concerns? What was he hoping...
to do at A&M?
Well, I hardly know how to answer that. He was just
great on getting everybody educated. He was...
Did he have any pet subjects that he liked better
than others? Well, after he retired, He taught a
course in sociology, I think, and he enjoyed doing
that. He would have been a good teacher. But, like,
did he favor agriculture, or did he favor
engineering? Well, where's Ralph?
Where is that book that he wrote on agriculture?
He's...
And the top one, The Green Rising, is the book on
agricultural economics. Yes, yes. So
your dad then, his agriculture would have been his
background. Were there any worries that he had
about A&M being changed by somebody else? Were
there any crises over? Not that I recall.
As
the First World War comes along, how did that
affect A&M? Well, I believe, if I remember
correctly, that they offered the country, you
know, the government, the chance to use all the
facilities down there I think they did for
training and and
it was it made a name for itself during the war. Did a
lot of the of the students go away like we saw in
World War II? The enrollment gets smaller? I just
can't answer things like that because I just don't
remember that.
As you were getting ready to finish high school,
were there World War II veterans coming back to the
campus?
That I don't know either. Let's see, some students
that were very special to A&M and to the state of
Texas and beyond that were there just about the
time you took your first year of A&M study. One was
M.T. Harrington, who graduated in the spring of
22. Do you remember him? That was this book right
here. He would be in that book. See, that's my
brother's year, too. And, yes, I remember him. Can
you tell me what you recall about him? I can't. I
just remember mainly for his name, but that is a
familiar name. He was from Plano and would later
become a great chemistry teacher, president, and
chancellor. His widow is still living, and she and
Joe are in the same PEO chapter. Oh, is that right?
Well, good, huh? Let's see. Do you remember a man
named, a year before Dr. Harrington, H.B. Zachary
from San Antonio? No. Well, Uvalde then, but then
Santa. I don't believe I remember. He would create
one of the huge engineering construction,
highway construction firms. And his son is still
running it today. Then a character, a beloved
artist named Buck Shewitz. Oh, boy, I was hoping
you... Because in the yearbook, they describe him
as the Curio from Cuero. No, I don't recall him at
all. Then the last one would be Sterling Evans. Mr.
Evans is 100 years old. It was last August, and I
interviewed him, and he was a key influence at the
time of coeducation, non-compulsory core, and so
forth. Was there any argument about making major
changes at A&M to admit women?
The only thing that I can remember about admitting
women was I just thought it was the worst idea I'd
ever heard in my life. It was going to ruin the
school and all that I'd ever known about it. I was
letting people do like it. That was your opinion?
That was my opinion. But you attended there two
years. I know. I know. And you liked it. I sure did.
But I felt like it was just going to delude all the
military. And the military to me, all the,
everything about the military, the uniforms and
the the polished boots and the shiny ornaments and
the way they kept everything. And every
afternoon at dinner time, the retreat.
You know, I've got all this in my mind that's not
like yours at all. Because there was this big, long
military drive, they call it. Went from Speza Hall
down to Guyon Hall. And that whole area would be,
each company would have its own captain and all the
officers lined up every evening. And people would
come in their cars just to watch retreat. And
they'd lower the flag and Star Spangled Banner And
you know, it was all impressive, and then giving
all the orders, and they all marched into the mess
hall. And that just, all just appealed to me. I
loved every bit of that. Did a young lady like you
ever go out there and watch that retreat? Well, I
saw it every day, because it was so close
to our house. Did you and your family eat in the
dining hall very often? In Sabisa Dining Hall? No.
Did you know Mr. Sabisa? Yes. Please tell us all you
can remember about him. I can't do that. I can't do
that because it's not all good. Oh, really? That I
remember. Well, tell us what you can that's good.
Well, I'll tell you what it was good that he did. And
that was on Sunday nights. They would bake this
bread that was just that homemade bread out of this
wonderful. And then he would slice it down the
middle, take out some of the inside and fill it with
broiled oysters and put the top down and bring it
over for our Sunday supper. Not all the time, you
know, just every now and then. And it was just
wonderful. So I remember, that is the good thing I
remember about Mr. Spears. Describe him
physically. Was he a big man, a little man? No, he
was kind of a little man. He had a little white
goatee. Did he sound Germanic? Did he seem to have a
German accent still? I think he had an accent.
Because as I recall, he had been on the... the chef
staff for the emperor of Austria-Hungary before
coming to the United States. I'm not surprised,
yeah. Was he stern? No. I don't know. He just
wasn't. All right. Back to Dean Kyle. Describe him
physically. Well, he was tall and slender.
Pleasant? Yeah, yeah. She was too. Now, were the
Kyles, did your family and the Kyles, were those
the closest friends? They tried not to have the
closest friends with the faculty people. I mean,
they didn't want to pick stuff. They just liked
them all. And of course, my mother and father had
these faculty receptions and had everybody.
But they didn't have this real close intimate
friends. They tried not to. They would pick and
choose, but now that I say that, I think that's the
way my mother felt. There was, I don't know, one of
her good friends there was Ms. Youngblood. Her
husband was on faculty. And, you know, the
Waltons, you mentioned their name. I've just been
thinking about the Waltons because they were Do
you know anything about the Waltons from Texas
A&M? Why don't you sit up, and then we've got to get
you propped up. Oh, I'm doing fine. Are you OK?
Yeah. Yeah.
Reminisce about the Waltons, please. Well, they
had a daughter, Ethel Walton, and she was a
contemporary of mine. She was there on the campus.
I don't know whether she ever went to school there
any night. I don't remember that. When
your father wanted to relax, what did he do for fun,
relaxation? Got himself a book and sat down and
read. He read all the time. What were his favorite
books? uh topics to read about oh was it fiction or
no no not much fiction he had a very large library
and
among his other books he had a i think it was 600
volumes Bible collection that he had bought all
over Europe. And the library down at Norman is
named for him, Brazil Memorial Library. And they
have a nice room there. The family donated the
collection. Oh, how nice. But all through the
years, he collected those. He had some very rare,
rare Bibles.